# AlgaerythmicWaves
Algaerhythmic Waves is an immersive, modular, and interactive installation by Kimberley Bianca and Tyler Grimes that explores the synchronization of human and non-human rhythms through sound, movement, and generative algorithms. The project invites participants to attune to water as a process, relation, and interface. Drawing from the dynamics of water surface flows and waves, the installation frames water as “the original mirror,” translating collective presence into oscillating visual and sonic patterns shaped by algae-inspired forms. The work combines EEG brain signals using MUSE headsets, and gestural recognition using MediaPipe, and near real-time environmental data to form a generative feedback loop in which emergent audiovisual material is self-referentially played back into the space, subtly influencing how visitors move, listen, and entrain to one another and to water. Conceptually, the project draws from psychological and environmental entrainment, hydrofeminism, and deep listening.
## The File System ##
**Each of the folders in this repository are "scenes", or, separate projects.** The first scene to work with is AW_Mandala.
## MediaPipe for TouchDesigner
Some of these scenes use MediaPipe for gestural recogition and tracking. Make sure to [download the latest release](https://github.com/torinmb/mediapipe-touchdesigner?tab=readme-ov-file) of MediaPipe for TouchDesigner, and put the "toxes" folder inside the scene folder you're working on. For example, "toxes" would be put into AW_Mandala before opening the AW_mediapipe_Mandala_USGS.toe project file.
